README.md, before:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/73/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/73)
[![Puppet Forge](https://img.shields.io/puppetforge/v/simp/polkit.svg)](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/simp/polkit)
[![Puppet Forge Downloads](https://img.shields.io/puppetforge/dt/simp/polkit.svg)](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/simp/polkit)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/simp/pupmod-simp-polkit.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/simp/pupmod-simp-polkit)

## This is a SIMP module

This module is a component of the [System Integrity Management Platform](https://simp-project.com),
a compliance-management framework built on Puppet.

If you find any issues, they can be submitted to our [JIRA](https://simp-project.atlassian.net/).

Please read our [Contribution Guide](https://simp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/contributors_guide/index.html).

## Work in Progress

Please excuse us as we transition this code into the public domain.

Downloads, discussion, and patches are still welcome!

Commit message:

(SIMP-7323) Add EL8 support (#32)
* (SIMP-7323) Add EL8 support

- Add EL8 support
- Drop EL6 support (it was non-functional)
- Fix issue with basic_policy template that resulted in malformed rules
- Add acceptance tests

SIMP-7323 #close
SIMP-7202 #comment Add EL8 support to simp-polkit

* Fix CHANGELOG entry

Co-authored-by: jeannegreulich <jeanne.greulich@onyxpoint.com>

README.md, after:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/:license-apache-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/73/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/73)
[![Puppet Forge](https://img.shields.io/puppetforge/v/simp/polkit.svg)](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/simp/polkit)
[![Puppet Forge Downloads](https://img.shields.io/puppetforge/dt/simp/polkit.svg)](https://forge.puppetlabs.com/simp/polkit)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/simp/pupmod-simp-polkit.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/simp/pupmod-simp-polkit)

## This is a SIMP module

This module is a component of the [System Integrity Management Platform](https://simp-project.com),
a compliance-management framework built on Puppet.

If you find any issues, they can be submitted to our [JIRA](https://simp-project.atlassian.net/).

Please read our [Contribution Guide](https://simp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/contributors_guide/index.html).

## Module Description

This module provides for the configuration of
[polkit](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/polkit/docs/latest/) policies.

## Reference

Plesae see [REFERENCE.md](./REFERENCE.md) for details.

# Development

Please read our [Contribution Guide](https://simp.readthedocs.io/en/stable/contributors_guide/index.html).

Visit the [project homepage](https://simp-project.com) and look at our issues on
[JIRA](https://simp-project.atlassian.net).
