REFERENCE.md, before:

# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`polkit`](#polkit): Set up PolicyKit
* [`polkit::install`](#polkitinstall): Manage the polkit package
* [`polkit::service`](#polkitservice): Ensure that the polkit service is running
* [`polkit::user`](#polkituser): Manage the `polkit` user
* [`polkit::user::hidepid_notify`](#polkituserhidepid_notify): A notification for hidepid user creation

### Defined types

* [`polkit::authorization::basic_policy`](#polkitauthorizationbasic_policy): Add a rule file containing javascript Polkit configuration to the system
* [`polkit::authorization::rule`](#polkitauthorizationrule): Add a rule file containing javascript Polkit configuration to the system
* [`polkit::local_authority`](#polkitlocal_authority): Add PolicyKit Local Authority policies to a system  Only the default ``authority`` directories are currently supported

### Functions

* [`polkit::validate_identity`](#polkitvalidate_identity): Validate that all entries are valid PolicyKit identities per pkla-check-authorization(8).  Abort catalog compilation if any entry fails this 

### Data types

* [`Polkit::Authority`](#polkitauthority): polkit authority types
* [`Polkit::PackageEnsure`](#polkitpackageensure): Package ensure type
* [`Polkit::Result`](#polkitresult): Polkit result types

## Classes

### `polkit`

Allows you to set up and manipulate PolicyKit objects

* **See also**
  * http://www.freedesktop.org/software/polkit/docs/latest/
    * PolicyKit Documentation

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit` class.

##### `manage_polkit_user`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enables managment of the `$polkit_user`

* Enabled by default since newer versions of polkit require the
  `$polkit_user` to be in the group assigned to /proc to function properly

@see `polkit::user`

Default value: ``true``

##### `package_ensure`

Data type: `Polkit::PackageEnsure`

The ensure status of packages

Default value: `simplib::lookup('simp_options::package_ensure', { 'default_value' => 'installed' })`

### `polkit::install`

Manage the polkit package

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::install` class.

##### `package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the package to manage

Default value: `'polkit'`

##### `package_ensure`

Data type: `Variant[String[1],Boolean]`

`ensure` state from the service resource

Default value: `$polkit::package_ensure`

### `polkit::service`

Ensure that the polkit service is running

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::service` class.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Variant[String[1],Boolean]`

`ensure` state from the service resource

Default value: `'running'`

##### `enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

`enable` state from the service resource

Default value: ``true``

##### `service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The `name` of the service to manage

Default value: `'polkit'`

### `polkit::user`

Manage the `polkit` user

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::user` class.

##### `user`

Data type: `String[1]`

The user that `polkit` runs as

Default value: `'polkitd'`

##### `user_options`

Data type: `Hash`

Allows setting of any of the usual puppet `User` resource options. Will
have the GID assigned to `/proc` added to the `groups` to preserve proper
system functionality.

Default value: `{}`

##### `report_proc_issues`

Data type: `Boolean`

Actively notify the user about issues with the `hidepid` setting on the
`/proc` filesystem

Default value: ``true``

### `polkit::user::hidepid_notify`

This was moved into a separate class for resource notification chaining correctness

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::user::hidepid_notify` class.

##### `log_level`

Data type: `Any`

The log level to use when generating the notification message

Default value: `'warning'`

## Defined types

### `polkit::authorization::basic_policy`

The intention of this define is to make it easy to add simple polkit rules
to a system. An example simple rule template is shown below:

```
// This file is managed by Puppet
polkit.addRule(function(action, subject) {
  if (<condition>) {
      return polkit.Result.<result>;
    }
  }
});
```

A user-specified <condition> can be supplied with the $condition parameter,
or the define can use the polkit::condition function to generate a condition
using $action_id, $user and/or $group, an (optionally) $local and $active.

* **See also**
  * polkit(8)

#### Examples

##### Allow users in the virtusers group to use the system libvirt

```puppet
polkit::authorization::basic_policy { 'Allow users to use libvirt':
  ensure    => present,
  group     => 'virtusers',
  result    => 'yes'
  action_id => 'org.libvirt.unix.manage',
  priority  => 20,
  local     => true,
  active    => true,
}

# Generates a policy file that looks like this
// This file is managed by Puppet
polkit.addRule(function(action, subject) {
  if ((action.id == 'org.libvirt.unix.manage') && subject.user == 'testuser' && subject.isInGroup('testgroup') && subject.local && subject.active) {
      return polkit.Result.YES;
    }
  }
});
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::authorization::basic_policy` defined type.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present','absent']`

Create or destroy the rules file

Default value: `'present'`

##### `result`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`

The authorization result of the polkit transaction, for example `yes` or `auth_admin`

##### `action_id`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The polkit action to operate on

* A list of available actions can be found by running `pkaction`

Default value: ``undef``

##### `user`

Data type: `Variant[Undef,String,Array[String]]`

User to check

Default value: ``undef``

##### `group`

Data type: `Variant[Undef,String,Array[String]]`

The group(s) that the user checking authorization belongs to

Default value: ``undef``

##### `local`

Data type: `Boolean`

Check if the user is a local user. See man page for more explaination

Default value: ``false``

##### `active`

Data type: `Boolean`

Check if the user is currently active. See man page for more explaination

Default value: ``false``

##### `condition`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

If specified, will be placed in the javascript condition to be met for polkit authorization

Default value: ``undef``

##### `log_action`

Data type: `Boolean`

Log the action to the system log

Default value: ``true``

##### `log_subject`

Data type: `Boolean`

Log the subject to the system log

Default value: ``true``

##### `priority`

Data type: `Integer[0,99]`

Priority of the file to be created

Default value: `10`

##### `rulesd`

Data type: `Stdlib::AbsolutePath`

Location of the poklit rules directory

Default value: `'/etc/polkit-1/rules.d'`

### `polkit::authorization::rule`

Add a rule file containing javascript Polkit configuration to the system

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::authorization::rule` defined type.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present','absent']`

Create or destroy the rules file

##### `content`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

An arbitrary string of javascript polkit configuration

##### `priority`

Data type: `Integer[0,99]`

Priority of the file to be created, lower priority means the rule would be read earlier

Default value: `10`

##### `rulesd`

Data type: `Stdlib::AbsolutePath`

Location of the poklit rules directory

Default value: `'/etc/polkit-1/rules.d'`

### `polkit::local_authority`

Add PolicyKit Local Authority policies to a system

Only the default ``authority`` directories are currently supported

* **See also**
  * pklocalauthority(8)

#### Examples

##### Local Test Policy

```puppet
polkit::local_authority { 'test_policy':
  identity        => 'unix-group:staff',
  action          => 'com.example.awesomeproduct.*',
  result_any      => 'no',
  result_inactive => 'no',
  result_active   => 'auth_admin'
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::local_authority` defined type.

##### `name`

A descriptive, valid **filename** (not path) in which to house your pkla entries

* Do not include the leading number or the trailing ``.pkla``

##### `identity`

Data type: `Variant[String,Array[String]]`

Identities as designated by ``pkla-check-authorization(8)``

Single entries may be entered as a String. Multiple entries should
be represented as an Array of entries and **NOT** a semicolon
separated string.

##### `action`

Data type: `String`



##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['file','absent','present']`

This passes directly down to the file type but only cares if you set it to
``absent``

Default value: `'present'`

##### `target_directory`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The destination base directory for your ``pkla`` file

* Anything may be used, but logical values are:
    * ``/etc/polkit-1/localauthority``
    * ``/var/lib/polkit-1/localauthority``

Default value: `'/etc/polkit-1/localauthority'`

##### `authority`

Data type: `Polkit::Authority`

The local authority directory in which to store the pkla file

Supported values are:
  * local
  * mandatory
  * org
  * site
  * vendor

Default value: `'mandatory'`

##### `order`

Data type: `Integer`

The ``order`` number given to your ``pkla`` file

* Higher numbers override lower ones in alphanumeric order

Default value: `50`

##### `section_name`

Data type: `String`

The section name within the ``pkla`` file

Default value: `$name`

##### `result_active`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

##### `result_inactive`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

##### `result_any`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

##### `return_value`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

## Functions

### `polkit::validate_identity`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that all entries are valid PolicyKit identities per
pkla-check-authorization(8).  Abort catalog compilation if any entry
fails this check.

#### `polkit::validate_identity(String $identity)`

The polkit::validate_identity function.

Returns: `Any` None

##### `identity`

Data type: `String`

Polkit identity; must begin with a 'unix-user:'
or 'unix_group:' header; the value portion can contain a wildcard.
For example, 'unix-user:username' or 'unix-group:mygroup*'

#### `polkit::validate_identity(Array[String] $identities)`

The polkit::validate_identity function.

Returns: `Any` None

##### `identities`

Data type: `Array[String]`

Array of Polkit identities; each must begin
with a 'unix-user:' or 'unix_group:' header; each value portion
can contain a wildcard.

## Data types

### `Polkit::Authority`

polkit authority types

Alias of `Enum['vendor', 'org', 'site', 'local', 'mandatory']`

### `Polkit::PackageEnsure`

Package ensure type

Alias of `Variant[String, Enum[
    'latest',
    'installed',
    'absent',
    'purged'
  ]]`

### `Polkit::Result`

Polkit result types

Alias of `Optional[Enum[
    'yes',
    'no',
    'auth_self',
    'auth_self_keep',
    'auth_admin',
    'auth_admin_keep',
  ]]`

Commit message:

(SIMP-8228) EL6 backwards compatibility workaround (#41)
* (SIMP-8228) EL6 backwards compatibility workaround

This wraps the defined types in code to make them inert on unsupported
OSs.

The previous code didn't actually do anything on EL6 but the new change
caused it to active break on those systems.

Since we do not have a good idea how widespread usage is, an intert
wrapper seems better than a cascading breaking change given that this is
used in the `simp/simp` module.

SIMP-8228 #comment EL6 backwards compatibility workaround

* Make entire module inert

* unsupported os fact test update

REFERENCE.md, after:

# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`polkit`](#polkit): Set up PolicyKit
* [`polkit::install`](#polkitinstall): Manage the polkit package
* [`polkit::service`](#polkitservice): Ensure that the polkit service is running
* [`polkit::user`](#polkituser): Manage the `polkit` user
* [`polkit::user::hidepid_notify`](#polkituserhidepid_notify): A notification for hidepid user creation

### Defined types

* [`polkit::authorization::basic_policy`](#polkitauthorizationbasic_policy): Add a rule file containing javascript Polkit configuration to the system
* [`polkit::authorization::rule`](#polkitauthorizationrule): Add a rule file containing javascript Polkit configuration to the system
* [`polkit::local_authority`](#polkitlocal_authority): Add PolicyKit Local Authority policies to a system  Only the default ``authority`` directories are currently supported

### Functions

* [`polkit::validate_identity`](#polkitvalidate_identity): Validate that all entries are valid PolicyKit identities per pkla-check-authorization(8).  Abort catalog compilation if any entry fails this 

### Data types

* [`Polkit::Authority`](#polkitauthority): polkit authority types
* [`Polkit::PackageEnsure`](#polkitpackageensure): Package ensure type
* [`Polkit::Result`](#polkitresult): Polkit result types

## Classes

### `polkit`

Allows you to set up and manipulate PolicyKit objects

* **See also**
  * http://www.freedesktop.org/software/polkit/docs/latest/
    * PolicyKit Documentation

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit` class.

##### `manage_polkit_user`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enables managment of the `$polkit_user`

* Enabled by default since newer versions of polkit require the
  `$polkit_user` to be in the group assigned to /proc to function properly

@see `polkit::user`

Default value: ``true``

##### `package_ensure`

Data type: `Polkit::PackageEnsure`

The ensure status of packages

Default value: `simplib::lookup('simp_options::package_ensure', { 'default_value' => 'installed' })`

##### `warn_on_unsupported_os`

Data type: `Boolean`

Warn if the module is trying to be used on an unsupported OS

* The module will not fail on an unsupported OS but also will not perform
  any action

Default value: ``true``

### `polkit::install`

Manage the polkit package

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::install` class.

##### `package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The name of the package to manage

Default value: `'polkit'`

##### `package_ensure`

Data type: `Variant[String[1],Boolean]`

`ensure` state from the service resource

Default value: `$polkit::package_ensure`

### `polkit::service`

Ensure that the polkit service is running

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::service` class.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Variant[String[1],Boolean]`

`ensure` state from the service resource

Default value: `'running'`

##### `enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

`enable` state from the service resource

Default value: ``true``

##### `service_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

The `name` of the service to manage

Default value: `'polkit'`

### `polkit::user`

Manage the `polkit` user

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::user` class.

##### `user`

Data type: `String[1]`

The user that `polkit` runs as

Default value: `'polkitd'`

##### `user_options`

Data type: `Hash`

Allows setting of any of the usual puppet `User` resource options. Will
have the GID assigned to `/proc` added to the `groups` to preserve proper
system functionality.

Default value: `{}`

##### `report_proc_issues`

Data type: `Boolean`

Actively notify the user about issues with the `hidepid` setting on the
`/proc` filesystem

Default value: ``true``

### `polkit::user::hidepid_notify`

This was moved into a separate class for resource notification chaining correctness

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::user::hidepid_notify` class.

##### `log_level`

Data type: `Any`

The log level to use when generating the notification message

Default value: `'warning'`

## Defined types

### `polkit::authorization::basic_policy`

The intention of this define is to make it easy to add simple polkit rules
to a system. An example simple rule template is shown below:

```
// This file is managed by Puppet
polkit.addRule(function(action, subject) {
  if (<condition>) {
      return polkit.Result.<result>;
    }
  }
});
```

A user-specified <condition> can be supplied with the $condition parameter,
or the define can use the polkit::condition function to generate a condition
using $action_id, $user and/or $group, an (optionally) $local and $active.

* **See also**
  * polkit(8)

#### Examples

##### Allow users in the virtusers group to use the system libvirt

```puppet
polkit::authorization::basic_policy { 'Allow users to use libvirt':
  ensure    => present,
  group     => 'virtusers',
  result    => 'yes'
  action_id => 'org.libvirt.unix.manage',
  priority  => 20,
  local     => true,
  active    => true,
}

# Generates a policy file that looks like this
// This file is managed by Puppet
polkit.addRule(function(action, subject) {
  if ((action.id == 'org.libvirt.unix.manage') && subject.user == 'testuser' && subject.isInGroup('testgroup') && subject.local && subject.active) {
      return polkit.Result.YES;
    }
  }
});
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::authorization::basic_policy` defined type.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present','absent']`

Create or destroy the rules file

Default value: `'present'`

##### `result`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`

The authorization result of the polkit transaction, for example `yes` or `auth_admin`

##### `action_id`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

The polkit action to operate on

* A list of available actions can be found by running `pkaction`

Default value: ``undef``

##### `user`

Data type: `Variant[Undef,String,Array[String]]`

User to check

Default value: ``undef``

##### `group`

Data type: `Variant[Undef,String,Array[String]]`

The group(s) that the user checking authorization belongs to

Default value: ``undef``

##### `local`

Data type: `Boolean`

Check if the user is a local user. See man page for more explaination

Default value: ``false``

##### `active`

Data type: `Boolean`

Check if the user is currently active. See man page for more explaination

Default value: ``false``

##### `condition`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

If specified, will be placed in the javascript condition to be met for polkit authorization

Default value: ``undef``

##### `log_action`

Data type: `Boolean`

Log the action to the system log

Default value: ``true``

##### `log_subject`

Data type: `Boolean`

Log the subject to the system log

Default value: ``true``

##### `priority`

Data type: `Integer[0,99]`

Priority of the file to be created

Default value: `10`

##### `rulesd`

Data type: `Stdlib::AbsolutePath`

Location of the poklit rules directory

Default value: `'/etc/polkit-1/rules.d'`

### `polkit::authorization::rule`

Add a rule file containing javascript Polkit configuration to the system

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::authorization::rule` defined type.

##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['present','absent']`

Create or destroy the rules file

##### `content`

Data type: `Optional[String]`

An arbitrary string of javascript polkit configuration

##### `priority`

Data type: `Integer[0,99]`

Priority of the file to be created, lower priority means the rule would be read earlier

Default value: `10`

##### `rulesd`

Data type: `Stdlib::AbsolutePath`

Location of the poklit rules directory

Default value: `'/etc/polkit-1/rules.d'`

### `polkit::local_authority`

Add PolicyKit Local Authority policies to a system

Only the default ``authority`` directories are currently supported

* **See also**
  * pklocalauthority(8)

#### Examples

##### Local Test Policy

```puppet
polkit::local_authority { 'test_policy':
  identity        => 'unix-group:staff',
  action          => 'com.example.awesomeproduct.*',
  result_any      => 'no',
  result_inactive => 'no',
  result_active   => 'auth_admin'
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `polkit::local_authority` defined type.

##### `name`

A descriptive, valid **filename** (not path) in which to house your pkla entries

* Do not include the leading number or the trailing ``.pkla``

##### `identity`

Data type: `Variant[String,Array[String]]`

Identities as designated by ``pkla-check-authorization(8)``

Single entries may be entered as a String. Multiple entries should
be represented as an Array of entries and **NOT** a semicolon
separated string.

##### `action`

Data type: `String`



##### `ensure`

Data type: `Enum['file','absent','present']`

This passes directly down to the file type but only cares if you set it to
``absent``

Default value: `'present'`

##### `target_directory`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The destination base directory for your ``pkla`` file

* Anything may be used, but logical values are:
    * ``/etc/polkit-1/localauthority``
    * ``/var/lib/polkit-1/localauthority``

Default value: `'/etc/polkit-1/localauthority'`

##### `authority`

Data type: `Polkit::Authority`

The local authority directory in which to store the pkla file

Supported values are:
  * local
  * mandatory
  * org
  * site
  * vendor

Default value: `'mandatory'`

##### `order`

Data type: `Integer`

The ``order`` number given to your ``pkla`` file

* Higher numbers override lower ones in alphanumeric order

Default value: `50`

##### `section_name`

Data type: `String`

The section name within the ``pkla`` file

Default value: `$name`

##### `result_active`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

##### `result_inactive`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

##### `result_any`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

##### `return_value`

Data type: `Polkit::Result`



Default value: ``undef``

## Functions

### `polkit::validate_identity`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Validate that all entries are valid PolicyKit identities per
pkla-check-authorization(8).  Abort catalog compilation if any entry
fails this check.

#### `polkit::validate_identity(String $identity)`

The polkit::validate_identity function.

Returns: `Any` None

##### `identity`

Data type: `String`

Polkit identity; must begin with a 'unix-user:'
or 'unix_group:' header; the value portion can contain a wildcard.
For example, 'unix-user:username' or 'unix-group:mygroup*'

#### `polkit::validate_identity(Array[String] $identities)`

The polkit::validate_identity function.

Returns: `Any` None

##### `identities`

Data type: `Array[String]`

Array of Polkit identities; each must begin
with a 'unix-user:' or 'unix_group:' header; each value portion
can contain a wildcard.

## Data types

### `Polkit::Authority`

polkit authority types

Alias of `Enum['vendor', 'org', 'site', 'local', 'mandatory']`

### `Polkit::PackageEnsure`

Package ensure type

Alias of `Variant[String, Enum[
    'latest',
    'installed',
    'absent',
    'purged'
  ]]`

### `Polkit::Result`

Polkit result types

Alias of `Optional[Enum[
    'yes',
    'no',
    'auth_self',
    'auth_self_keep',
    'auth_admin',
    'auth_admin_keep',
  ]]`
